This is the latest in a string of accolades for this phenomenal student, who left the UK to study a three-year degree at Red & Yellow. And proof that South African institutions with the right approach to education can produce world-class talent. Red & Yellow has a proud history of award winners, hailing all the way back to its famous founders and creative legacy. “We’ve been teaching future business leaders to think creatively since 1994, and Felicity is yet another example of the high calibre of graduates we produce. We are so proud of this incredible young creative, and can’t wait to see the impact she’ll have on the world,” says Wesley Fredericks, Managing Director of the school. Felicity’s achievements on the local and international stage include a Merit (in the “Young Ones Student” category) at The One Club for Creativity ceremony in New York, a Graphite Pencil at the prestigious D&AD London awards, a Silver Loerie last year and Finalist this year. “Red & Yellow’s philosophy has always been to nurture our students’ innate creative dexterity. This award is a tribute to our 25-year legacy and unique approach to developing creative thinking, and a testament to Felicity’s immense creative prowess. The fact that she is receiving recognition, both locally and abroad, confirms her dedication to her craft and her wide-ranging talent,” says Jeandri Robertson, Red & Yellow’s Head of Education. The school’s commitment to ensuring students reach their full potential is validated by Felicity’s comment: “I could not have done it without the incredible lecturers who have been instrumental in my growth over the last three years. Thank you so much to all of you!” About Red & Yellow Red & Yellow has been teaching business leaders to think creatively since 1994. The school was founded by legends of the creative industry and is now run by a team of seasoned entrepreneurs and business leaders who bring their hands-on experience to ensure that students - on campus, online or on corporate training programmes - receive the most relevant education for the 21st century. Red & Yellow’s mission is to equip students with the commercial logic, human skills and creative magic to set individuals and organisations apart.