A lazy Sunday affords a leisurely dollop of time to absorb and enjoy in-depth news, sport, personal finance and entertainment across Ads24’s range of Sunday titles – Rapport, City Press, Son op Sondag and Sunday Sun. According to newswork.org (an international marketing body for the industry), men spend 73 minutes, while women spend 66 reading a print publication. The average reading time for a Sunday publication on a tablet is 55 minutes, 54 minutes by smartphone and 50 minutes on a desktop. What’s more, readers continue to read their Sunday titles well into the next week.With 4.1-million South African readers across all demographics, Ads24’s Sunday titles present enormous cross-platform possibilities for a brand to educate, drive sales and generate leads. “The point we want to stress is that we have the skills, know-how and creativity to run sophisticated campaigns that make use of all major touch points across print and digital,” says Ads24’s Brand Manager Marise van der Lith. “Ads24’s titles account for 54% of all Sunday readers and it’s not just lip service when we say we can help your brand to achieve their full attention through innovative 360 degree campaigns.”To illustrate this, Ads24 is currently running a Sunday Sundaes activation across national agencies to illustrate how brands can most effectively run their campaigns for maximum return on investment. By using the delicious Paul’s Homemade Ice Cream to illustrate the concept, Ads24 is inviting brands to experience the full flavour of their offerings.Build your perfect SundayBuild your ultimate Sunday Sundae from Ads24’s range of South African flavours, designed to bring your brands into the hands of their readers. Start by choosing your favourite flavour title, or combination, across Rapport, Son op Sondag, Sunday Sun or City Press.  Add the first layer of toppings by choosing a format – wrap, front page, DPS, feature section, main body or insert. Pick your digital platforms and remember you can add Netwerk24 to the mix. Sprinkle or drizzle your final layer of toppings by picking and mixing from retail bar, interstitial mobile or desktop, takeover, carousel, advertorial, social media, desktop banners or section sponsorship.And, before you assume you have your campaign covered be sure to take Ads24’s Sunday Sundae’s Quiz.“The quiz is a fun way for us to get the point across that just when you think you have your target market cornered, think again,” says Van der Lith. “The outcome can be quite surprising. It is an educational and engaging initiative aimed to create likeness amongst our clients and our readers. The point is, as South Africans we have more similarities than differences. You might be surprised at how well your brand is received by readers of a title you might not have considered previously.”Speak to your Ads24 representative to see how we can help sweeten your brand’s campaign.