The Most Influential Brands study unveils and ranks the most influential brands in South Africa, and offers a case study perspective on the dimensions that drive each brand’s influence. These dimensions, which differ slightly from country to country include a brands perceived “Leading Edge”, “Respect”, “Presence”, “Trustworthiness” and “Engagement”. “Far from being a popularity contest amongst brands, this study speaks to the actual influence that a brand has on South African consumers’ everyday lives,” says Ray Kong who chaired the event on Friday morning. Some interesting themes that have arisen amongst the South African brands include  The significant influence of retail: Out of the Top 10 Brands, 4 are retail names, probably as a result of retail outlets becoming a one stop household management destination, by offering banking services, payments on utility bills and licences, as well as becoming distribution points for social grants and allowing people to send money to each other quickly and effectively. Local is Lekker: Many local brands sit at the top of the list, and this is in contrast with many other markets around the world. Localisation speaks to the fundamental needs of a community and these brands have excelled at making consumers feel understood . Accessible for the People: The essence of most of these brands is that they are inclusive, relatable and warm which speaks to the principle of UBUNTU that is ingrained in South African culture and way of life. Simplicity Works: South Africa really is unique in the brands that have come out tops when comparing it to the top-10 list in other markets, which has been dominated by digital and tech brands. WhatsApp is the only digital brand to make the South African Top 10 and has taken off in a big way in South Africa because of the simplicity and affordability in using this service.Rooted yet Progressive: The brands that have emerged at the top of the influence scale are those who are rooted in South Africa, retain and uphold the traditional uses and values of the brand, yet continue to move forward to address what their customers need with line extensions and upgrades when needed. The Top 10 Brands Most Influential Brands in South Africa are: Pick n Pay Shoprite / Checkers Coca-Cola Colgate Vaseline Spar Sunlight Whatsapp Woolworths KooThe presentation of results was followed by a lively panel discussion including Woolworths and MTN as well as many comments from the audience about building contextual and local relevance and influence in the South African market. About the survey:Fieldwork for this study was conducted from 20 April to 7 June 2018.  A total of 3,619 ADULT South Africans, 18 years and older, were interviewed. They were randomly selected and interviewed face-to-face in their homes and home languages. Interviews were conducted all over the country, from metropolitan areas to deep rural areas. This methodology ensured that the results are representative of the views of the universe and that findings can be weighted and projected to the universe – i.e. South Africans 18 years and older. 120 brands across various categories were included in the study. Please contact Ipsos if you require more information – Mari.Harris@ipsos.combRev('brev-701cbf65-3e98-4543-9530-4b1603213729', '>a/\<moc.sospi@sirraH.iraM>"moc.sospi;46#&sirraH.iraM:otliam"=ferh "knalb_"=tegrat a<')