via GIPHYBlack Friday has picked up steam in South Africa since its entry into the local market in 2015, with a growing number of retailers and brands participating in the event each year. 2017 was the strongest Black Friday to date for consumer electronics sales in South Africa, and Superbalist celebrated its biggest trading day with over 118% year-on-year growth. This year, many local retailers opted to extend the sale weekend into a week- or month-long affair, possibly to secure spend from those consumers whose payday only falls in the week after Black Friday.Below are some of the retailers that have confirmed participation in Black Friday 2018.ZandoZando is offering up to 90% across categories on its site, including on major brands like Adidas and Puma. Beginning at 00:01 on Friday, 23 November the Zando Black Friday sale will run over the entire weekend including Cyber Monday. TakealotTakealot’s famous Blue Dot Sale will run for five days with discounts of up to 60% on Black Friday, throughout the weekend as well as on Cyber Monday and Takealot Tuesday. Download the Takealot.com app for access to pre-Black Friday sales, app-only deals and sneak previews.MakroMakro is running a 5-day Black Friday promotion from 21-25 November 2018, with price cuts on over 26,000 products. Mobile POS systems will be rolled out during the sale, letting customers purchasing a small number of items pay while standing in a queue. In-store trading hours have also been extended for the period.Interestingly, the retailer has partnered with Uber to offer a R50 discount on rides to and from Makro outlets in Johannesburg, Cape Town, Durban and Port Elizabeth. The voucher code MAKRO5DAY can be used twice per rider.SuperbalistSuperbalist is running various Black Friday specials for five days, from 23 to 27 November, with new deals unlocked each day. These deals will be revealed via email, on the mobile app and via a Facebook event. Superbalist has also super-sized their 2018 Black Friday sale to run for five days.myTFGworld.comBlack Friday deals from TFG’s new marketplace include box sets of family favourites from Reader’s Warehouse at 20% off, fresh flowers and bouquets from Bloomable at 20% off, and a free retro phone with any Pylones purchase.@home@home will offer discounts across categories on Black Friday. Deals include R3000 off a Smeg Mixer, R7000 off couches, up to R1,000 off pot sets, and further deals on kitchen, dining, décor, bedding and furniture ranges.FoschiniShoppers can get access to Foschini’s best Black Friday deals by signing up to TFG Rewards to qualify for an exclusive preview taking place in stores nationwide on Thursday 22 November at 4pm. For extra offers and more info around the sale, customers are urged to sign up to Foschini’s newsletter.Pick n PayPick n Pay got a head start on Black Friday, announcing online deals as early as 5 November. Online customers can expect discounts of up to 50% across various categories on the Pick n Pay’s online shop, including liquor, food, toiletries and household products. Deals have also been launched for select appliances. Deals will run weekly from 5 to 25 November.ShopriteShoprite is promising “lower prices than ever” with up to 50% off on selected products on Black Friday. All deals are valid on 23 November 2018 while stocks last.GameGame launched deals as early as 7 November to build up momentum for the main shopping event on  Black Friday. The retailer promises discounts across all categories at all its 145 stores in South Africa and Africa on the day, and some stores will be opening several hours earlier than normal – some as early as midnight on 22 November – to accommodate the rush.Additionally, on Cyber Monday shoppers will be able to pick up “phenomenal deals” on a variety of tech products including laptops, tablets, smartphones and digital accessories.Dion WiredStarting on 22 November at midnight, right through to 23 November, Dion Wired shoppers can save up to 53% on a variety of brands both in-store and online.ClicksClicks is holding an online only Pre-Black Friday Extravaganza from 16 November to 22 November, that continues over the Black Friday weekend, in stores and online, and concludes with Cyber Week from 25 November to 2 December (online only). The deals are exclusive to ClubCard members.The retailer has promised the following specials: Up to 70% off technology and accessories, up to 50% off beauty products, up to 50% off electrical products, up to 50% off household products, up to 40% off health products, up to 30% off baby products.RunwaySaleOnline fashion retailer RunwaySale will be running a week-long promotion, starting at 5am on 19 November and ending at midnight on 25 November. Daily escalating discounts will be available on thousands of designer fashion and accessory brands, culminating in up to 80% off. There will also be exclusive offers for VIP shoppers, early launch sales and other daily pop-up specials.MarkhamMarkham is giving shoppers up to 50% off its fashion sale goods. The ‘Make your Mark’ Black Friday offer is also available in its Relay Jeans stores and on both online sites. Faithful to NatureFaithful to Nature is running its Black5Day Sale on its site from 19 to 23 November. Each day reveals new specials with savings of between 40% to 50% on wellness and eco-friendly brands like Wazoogles, Back2Nature, Bee Natural and Triple Orange.The retailer will also donate a portion of their turnover from the Black5Day Sale to Endangered Wildlife Trust to support them in their animal protection movements, from poaching to climate change, habitat destruction and pollution.Toys R UsToy retailer Toys R Us says it will be running Black Friday deals on its top brands with up to 70% off. The Gadget ShopThe Gadget Shop will run a Black Friday sale from 23-25 November, with 20% off all products except for DJI drones, and up to 50% off selected products. There will also be buy-one-get-one-free specials on selected products. The Gadget Shop will also run Cyber Monday online-only deals.FirstShopFirstShop will run Black Friday deals from 21-27 November, with discounts across categories including laptops, desktops, monitors, hard drives, PC components, headphones, speakers, and PC peripherals.The FixFashion retailer The Fix will have buy-one-get-one-free offers both in-store and online this Black Friday. TFG Rewards customers get exclusive access to Black Friday offers at The Fix all day on Thursday, 22 November.SportsceneSportscene Shoppers can score up to 75% off selected sneakers and shop a curated selection of streetwear apparel and accessories at up to 50% off.American Swiss and SternsTFG-owned jewellery stores American Swiss and Sterns will be offering in-store specials of up to 50% off selected jewellery and watches.TeljoySouth African online retailer for electronics, furniture and household goods, if offering Black Friday discounts for a whole week, from 19 November to Cyber Monday on 26 November. Brands on sales include Hisense, Panasonic, Huawei, HP, Mecer and Defy.PricecheckOn Black Friday, price comparison site PriceCheck will have a list of curated Black Friday deals, encompassing all site-wide deals either above 30% or equal to R2,000 or more in saving. PriceCheck’s Black Friday deals will run from 19 November to 26 November, with category specials running daily in the build-up to Black Friday.This list will be updated as new deals are announced.