The challenge is to empower 67 young, bright and budding entrepreneurs - who are poised for greatness, but lack the financial means - with the skills, knowledge and know-how to turn great ideas into successful businesses.  Named after the legacy of Mandela, this challenge aims to perpetuate his passion for education into the 21st century. “It is no longer enough to just give 67 minutes; South Africans need to do more if there is going to be a change,” says Wesley Fredericks, managing director of Red & Yellow. “Being in the education industry, I can say with confidence that Mandela was right - education is the most powerful weapon we can use to change the world.” Red & Yellow are challenging corporates and successful SMEs to pay it forward by sponsoring the tuition fees for a deserving student on the blended learning Entrepreneurship in Action online short course. A small dent of R12,500 from your corporate social responsibility budget will have a massive impact. Red & Yellow’s commitment is to meet every corporate sponsorship with one of their own. Not only can companies play a huge role in transforming South Africa, but they can also claim the full amount against their enterprise development spend. Entrepreneurship in Action is exclusive to Red & Yellow, and distills advice, learnings and theory from leading industry knowledge partners into an intense 10-week course offering. It offers all the flexibility of online learning, amplified by weekly lectures that can be attended on campus, live streamed, or downloaded for viewing at a more convenient time. Karen Hidden, with many years’ experience and a Masters in Inclusive Innovation, one of our lecturers, comments: “This Mandela Day Challenge is not a quick fix; it is a powerful step in the direction of sustainable and uplifting transformation.” For any more information, visit Red & Yellow’s website or send an email to Andrew Allison at andrew.allison@redandyellow.co.zabRev('brev-15fdd961-4c10-4ae6-b3a6-10cae17b6b84', '>a/\<az.oc.wolleydnader@nosilla.werdna>"az.oc.wolleydnader;46#&nosilla.werdna:otliam"=ferh "knalb_"=tegrat a<').