Castle Lite presents Hip Hop Herstory, a musical experience which highlights and celebrates the role females have played in the evolution of hip hop over time. The concert will be a fully immersive experience tapping into all pillars of hip hop from dance, fashion all the way to graffiti and obviously rapping. Hip Hop Herstory is more than a concert, it is a movement for all hip-hop heads to lend their voice in recognising female rappers and artists who have made an incredible mark in the industry. The campaign will allow open discussions across multiple media platforms within the hip-hop fraternity and tell the story of women in hip hop through their own lens. “Castle Lite has always been at the frontline of raising the African music flag high. Herstory is another testament to the progressive nature of the brand and we will give audiences an extraordinary experience highlighting the role women have played in the evolution of this genre.” – Becky Opdyke, Castle Lite Director. Castle Lite presents Hip Hop Herstory will be hosted at Gallagher Convention Centre in Midrand on 8 September and will feature international female royalty in the guise of Angela Yee of Breakfast Club fame, Queens-born rapper Roxanne Shante and Young M.A of triple-platinum hit single Ooouuu. The concert will see South Africa’s leading lady in hip hop, LootLove, co-present with Lee Kasumba of Uganda. Other hip-hop queens who will grace the stage are boss lady Bragga-Nadia Nakai, Dololo hitmaker Rouge, award-winning Gigi Lamayne, rapper and television presenter Moozlie, 2016 SAHHAs Honorary Award recipients Godessa, Okzharp and Manthe Ribane, South Africa's rising hip-hop star Dope Saint Jude, award-winning artist and TV personality Fifi Cooper, Relo of Mzansi’s hip-hop crew Skwatta Kamp and Ayanda MVP. Castle Lite presents Hip Hop Herstory is working with the SA Hip Hop Awards (SAHHAs) on an initiative that will see an upcoming female hip-hop act partake in a mentorship programme to develop her through the hip-hop ranks – part of ticket proceeds will go towards this initiative. Tickets are available at Nutickets from Wednesday, 8 August 2018, starting from R150. If you love hip hop, all of it, join these amazing artists at this groundbreaking event on 8 September 2018. CASTLE LITE IS NOT FOR SALE TO PERSONS UNDER THE AGE OF 18.