SustersThree adopted sisters are reunited after the untimely death of their mom. Lexie, a free-spirited entomologist; Jo, an aspiring fashion designer; and Cecile, a stay home mom, are forced to put their lives on hold, to fulfil their late mom’s last wishes. What ensues is a road trip through beautiful parts of South Africa, and a trip down memory lane, filled with adventurous twists and turns, and many colourful characters. It is directed by Corné van Rooyen from a screenplay by Corine du Toit and Sandra Vaughn. Says producer Jenny Griesel: “I wanted to make a film that girls, moms, daughters, sisters and friends could all enjoy together. A film with a unique signature and a big heart.”  The Leisure SeekerAcademy Award-winner Helen Mirren and two-time Golden Globe- winner Donald Sutherland stars as a runaway couple on an unforgettable journey in the faithful old RV they call the Leisure Seeker. The couple travels from Boston to The Ernest Hemingway Home in Key West, recapturing their passion for life and their love for each other on a road trip that provides revelation and surprise right up to the very end. The great American Road movie is directed by Paolo Virzì, winner of the 2017 David di Donatello Best Director Award.WinchesterAfter the sudden death of her family, firearms heiress Sarah Winchester (Helen Mirren) becomes convinced that she’s haunted by the souls of those killed by guns in the chilling supernatural thriller Winchester. Winchester then decides to build an enormous mansion that’s designed to keep the evil spirits at bay. When sceptical psychiatrist Eric Price visits the estate to evaluate her state of mind, he soon discovers that her obsession may not be so far-fetched after all. This supernatural horror is directed by Michael and Peter Spierig.Ready Player OneIn the year 2045, the real world is a harsh place. The only time Wade Watts (Tye Sheridan) truly feels alive is when he escapes to the OASIS, an immersive virtual universe where most of humanity spend their days.  In the OASIS, you can go anywhere, do anything, be anyone—the only limits are your own imagination. The OASIS was created by the brilliant and eccentric James Halliday (Mark Rylance), who left his immense fortune and total control of the OASIS to the winner of a three-part contest he designed to find a worthy heir. When Wade conquers the first challenge of the reality-bending treasure hunt, he and his friends—known as the High Five—are hurled into a fantastical universe of discovery and danger to save the OASIS and their world.Three-time Oscar winner Steven Spielberg directed the film from a screenplay by Zak Penn and Ernest Cline. It is based on the novel by Cline, which has spent more than 100 weeks on The New York Times Best Seller List, recently climbing to the number spot, as well as reaching number one on Amazon’s Most Read Fiction chart.Tyler Perry’s AcrimonyIn this psychological thriller, a faithful wife (Taraji P. Henson) is tired of standing by her devious husband and is enraged when it becomes clear she has been betrayed. When Melinda (Henson) first met Robert, she was sceptical of his charming nature but couldn’t deny how attracted she was to him. Once they fell in love, Melinda moulded herself into everything he wanted her to be. She sacrificed for him, worked to support his grandiose dreams, and put up with him for better or for worse. Then one day she realised that after all she had done, another woman was reaping the lavish rewards. That’s when Melinda lost it. And now she cannot let it go. She’s been used, disrespected and unpardonably deceived. Or has she? As Melinda’s long-bottled wrath is uncorked like a force of nature, writer-director Tyler Perry takes a riveting look at the toxic fury and the poisonous consequences when it seeps through the veins of a marriage.Peter RabbitThe mischievous and adventurous hero who has captivated generations of readers now takes on the starring role of his own irreverent, contemporary comedy with attitude. In the film, Peter’s feud with Mr McGregor (Domhnall Gleeson) escalates to greater heights than ever before as they rival for the affections of the warm-hearted animal lover who lives next door (Rose Byrne). James Corden voices the character of Peter with a playful spirit and wild charm, with Margot Robbie, Elizabeth Debicki, and Daisy Ridley performing the voice roles of the triplets, Flopsy, Mopsy, and Cottontail. This live-action/CGI animated adventure comedy is directed by Will Gluck from a screenplay by Gluck and Rob Lieber, based on the stories of the character of the same name created by Beatrix Potter.  Cat On A Hot Tin RoofFollowing his smash hit production of A Streetcar Named Desire, Benedict Andrews’ ‘thrilling revival’ of Cat On A Hot Tin Roof stars Sienna Miller alongside Jack O’Connell and Colm Meaney. Tennessee Williams’ 20th Century masterpiece played a strictly limited season in London’s West End in 2017 and is screened at Cinema Nouveau from 31 March 2018.Read more about the latest film releases: www.writingstudio.co.za