The Advertising Media Association of South Africa (Amasa) (Johannesburg) has announced that FNB will be partnering with the organisation to present the 2018 Amasa Workshop. Relaunched in 2016, the annual Workshop continues to be a highlight on the media industry calendar, and was sold out in both 2016 and 2017. The 2018 Amasa Workshop will take place from 22 – 25 March in a new format that features 40 top industry experts, who will be sharing their knowledge in speed-networking and panel-style discussions. The new format will enable delegates to actively participate in each session and will also allow for real-life, first-hand experience and coaching.“Amasa is delighted to welcome FNB on board as both partner and sponsor,” says Amasa Chair, Wayne Bishop. “The two organisations share many values and objectives, and this collaboration brings with it synergies that will be of great benefit to delegates.”FNB’s core philosophy is one of helpfulness, and the bank has partnered with Amasa in order to help grow, develop and facilitate innovation in the advertising and media industry. “We see this as the start of an ongoing strategic relationship that could stimulate and improve innovation ideas in the media industry. The Amasa Workshop plays an important role in empowering professionals with the knowledge and confidence to be disruptive innovators who defy monotony in communications while breaking through the clutter in the marketplace,” says Sadika Fakir, Media Head: Brand Management at FNB.“We are excited to partner with a leading industry organisation to bring together media owners, media agencies and media departments to advance a common purpose,” adds Fakir.The first two days of this year’s jam-packed workshop offer a  snapshot view of the media landscape and intensive learning on topics such as strategy development, media planning and campaign evaluation. On the third day, delegates will be split into groups and experts from FNB will present a live brief to each group. The groups will then be required to develop and present a full-circle strategy in response to the brief to the client. Judging and feedback will take place on the final day, and this will be followed by a celebratory graduation dinner.