In its 17th year, the Oliver Top Empowerment Awards recognises companies and individuals for their contribution and commitment to empowerment in South Africa; acknowledging the efforts of businesses, civil society, the public sector and outstanding individuals. According to Top Media and Communication Marketing and Events Director Karla Fletcher: “Our judges were seriously impressed by the calibre of entries received this year. Dividing winners from finalists will not be easy for them. Every leading business has a core priority that it pursues, whether that is to be a sustainability leader, an innovator or an employer of choice. The marketplace should know that all of our finalists have been astutely researched and shown to be the best at what they do.” Through their recognition on the national stage, past Oliver Top Empowerment finalists and winners have ignited the ambition of peers in their sector, to pursue a similar high-water mark and Lemok Group aims to do the same. Adam Samie, CEO at Lion of Africa Insurance, shares how the Oliver Top Empowerment Awards is an impactful platform to showcase pioneers in transformation: “Since being awarded the Oliver Empowerment Diversity Award, Lion of Africa Insurance has been featured in a number of industry-specific publications talking about the award and the importance of implementing employment equity practices in an organisation. This is an important platform to use in order to encourage the industry to take proactive steps in transformation. It has always been a strategic imperative for our organisation to be an empowered company. Winning the Diversity Award at the 11th Oliver Empowerment Awards means that we have been vindicated for encouraging diversity and empowerment, and will continue to support these values in the insurance industry.” Sponsors include Nedbank, North West Parks Board, 20/20 Insight, AVBOB, Saya-Setona, VBS Mutual Bank and the Department of Science and Technology. For more information on Lemok Group’s Oliver Top Empowerment Awards journey, please contact Lebogang Mokubela on lebogang@lemokgroup.co.zabRev('brev-aa627dce-3419-4d2a-86bb-f3a79910b7a5', '>a/\<az.oc.puorgkomel@gnagobel>"az.oc.puorgkomel;46#&gnagobel:otliam"=ferh a<') or 012 797 2072.