Studies similar to these, which have been researched, tested and verified are the backbone of Sabinet’s information services. The source of peer reviewed information for universities, institutions, researchers and governments alike, Sabinet knows the importance of providing this information to its numerous clients.If bots are not to blame, humans are aggregators of the misinformation we are bombarded with, on an ever-growing basis from online sources around the world. The only way to prevent the spread of this digital first virus is to be certain of your sources. Understanding how to discern between articles with good sources, versus those with bad, or without sources. Sabinet retroactively digitizes articles from hundreds of mainstream local publications between 1978 and present day. You will find what the local press had to say about your topic, and you discern credibility for yourself. Journalists are schooled in sourcing verifiable, well researched information, providing their audiences with information that can stand the test of time. This skill however, is not only important for journalists, but for every single digitally active individual. Never be caught off-guard by lack of information. Always research information from reputable sources, and trust only those institutions which have built a reputation for providing the most up to date information. Sabinet takes pride in bringing the whole picture to Africa from all over the world, and showcasing African-first information to the rest of the world.About SabinetWith a sound performance history of over 30 years, Sabinet has firmly established itself as a leader in facilitating access to a wide spectrum of high-quality and credible information sources. Over the course of the last three decades, Sabinet has built a strong local and international reputation for providing Africa's information to the world and the world's information to Africa.Sabinet's mission to support libraries' technical processes, promote resource sharing and enable access to information sources is underpinned by its commitment, partnerships, understanding and support.Sabinet's roots are in library support services, where it is recognised for providing central platforms for collaboration and resource sharing among libraries.