Comic Con Africa has descended upon Johannesburg and the excitement around it is palpable. To someone who doesn’t know much about comic culture, this seems like just another event. But the reality is that Comic Con has a history dating back to 1970 with the original convention being held in San Diego, California. Only 300 people showed up for the first one. These days, it is a huge movement – geek culture is no longer a niche; it has become a big pillar of pop culture and youth culture.  Black Panther becoming the highest grossing Marvel movie to date helped showcase African culture, design and general awesomeness. This made it impossible for Comic Con to ignore Africa's roaring voice in the Marvel cinematic universe with an income of $1bn worldwide in 26 days. African consumers, especially the youth consumers, have spoken and brands like Comic Con have been savvy enough to listen. Being the country cousin is no longer being accepted. The youth are an exciting bunch and the possibilities on how to engage with them are endless if you’re in touch and you locate your brand within the culture. Living and operating on the youngest continent in terms of youth population means that it’s critical now more than ever for businesses to be a part of youth conversations, their struggles and their tribulations. That is where the opportunity lies. There is a greater need to be a part of the African child’s future. The youth are the future is a cliché statement that cannot be ignored due to its veracity. At HDI we are privileged to say that we wake up everyday and live for this statement and we help others future proof their businesses through solutions that meaningfully engage young people. You should too. In the words of one of HDI’s *JBOD member, "Get them whilst they’re young and they’re yours forever."*HDI's Junior Board of Directors (JBoD) include youth that are opinion leaders, mavens, trend predictors. The boards are hand-picked groups of young people chosen for their cultural diversity and astute opinion and leadershipin various spheres of influence.