“The decision to launch our training academy comes as more and more companies are looking to bolster their internal competencies. We are also able to help agencies and publishers who are looking to upskill their teams and which have clients who require the full power of the Google Marketing Platform and Google Ad Manager,” explains Johan Walters, Managing Consultant at DQ&A.DQ&A is a Google Marketing Platform Sales Partner with industry experience spanning for more than 15 years. This long-standing partnership with Google ideally positions DQ&A to help agencies become proficient in the Google Marketing Platform stack.The DQ&A Training Academy delivers theoretical and practical training sessions. The training acts as a foundation for those with some basic understanding of the Google Marketing ecosystem and who want to move forward to further certification through either Google Academy for Ads or Publisher University. The team can also help develop bespoke training programmes for organisations with specific requirements.The training offers a pragmatic focus on Campaign Manager, Display & Video 360, Search Ads 360 and Google Ad Manager. It also adds external ecosystem knowledge with insight into data management platforms, supply side platforms and exchanges.The analytics training, meanwhile, gives practical insight into Google Analytics 360 and Google Tag Manager 360.The DQ&A Training Academy has already had some early success with local enterprises looking to build in-house competencies.“It is vital for the Vodacom Digital Advertising team to align with global best practices from a digital advertising operations perspective. Our decision to approach the team at DQ&A was motivated by their overall expertise on the Google Marketing platform and Google Ad Manager Platforms, their professionalism, and the fact that they’re a friendly, helpful bunch of people,” comments Denvor Daniels, Principle Specialist Digital Advertising at Vodacom.  As part of the IncuBeta Group, DQ&A and its sister company, NMPi, have access to over 400 digital marketing experts in 13 markets across five continents.“With more than 1000 customers and campaigns running in more than 100 countries and in 55 languages, our team has a deep understanding of how to successfully deliver in some of the most complex environments. We have distilled that insight to create a curriculum which is locally relevant, but carries all the experience of 15 years of global delivery. Learners will graduate with far more than just certification. They will also have the benefit of being able to tap into our extensive real-world experience,” says Jonathan Gluckman, CEO of NMPi Asia Pacific and Africa.