Meltwater, a pioneer of media intelligence and now Outside Insight, today announced its acquisition of Sysomos, a leader in social analytics and engagement. The addition of Sysomos to Meltwater enables organisations to analyse social media, news and other human-generated content in one platform, furthering Meltwater’s mission to give businesses the insights from outside data, helping them stay ahead. “All the social analytics companies look at social data in isolation, limiting the insights for brands and businesses,” says Jorn Lyseggen, founder and CEO of Meltwater. “With our acquisition of Sysomos, we can bring together news and social media under one company, giving social data context while adding social engagement to our news and media monitoring offering.”For the PR and communications teams who engage with influencers over social media, Meltwater’s existing Media Intelligence division will now offer integrated news monitoring and social engagement. Under Meltwater, Sysomos will become the Social Analytics division with a  focus on delivering timely and relevant insights to brands and marketing teams. Both divisions support Meltwater’s mission to give businesses insights from external data. “By joining the Meltwater team, our clients benefit from the leadership and global scale of one of the world’s first SaaS companies,” says Peter Heffring, the former Sysomos CEO who will run Meltwater’s Social Analytics division. “In order to enhance the search and analytics experience in the Sysomos Platform, we will leverage the AI models and information extracted from the unstructured web by Meltwater. This will give our clients the context needed to collect more meaningful insights across their earned and owned social channels.”Following the acquisition of DataSift last month, the Sysomos acquisition cements Meltwater as the market leader of both Social Analytics and Media Intelligence. “It's not enough to simply give clients raw data or shallow analytics – businesses need relevant insights. Between our combined data partnerships, Sysomos' social analytics and Meltwater's AI models, we can combine social and news data to extract game-changing insights for both of our clients,” says Niklas de Besche, Executive Director of Product at Meltwater. “At the same time, with Sysomos under the Meltwater brand, we can offer our clients greater integration between social engagement and media monitoring.”The Sysomos acquisition is Meltwater’s seventh in the last 18 months.About MeltwaterMeltwater, a pioneer of media intelligence and now Outside Insight, gives businesses the information advantage they need to stay ahead. More than 26,000 companies have used Meltwater’s media intelligence to stay on top of billions of online conversations and extract relevant insights to strategically manage their brands. With nearly 20 years of experience analyzing data, Meltwater is dedicated to personal, global service built on the local expertise of 55 offices across six continents. Meltwater is also committed to fostering the data science ecosystem through MEST, a pan-African entrepreneurial program and incubator, and Shack15, a global data science community. Learn more at Meltwater.com.About SysomosSysomos is the global leader in social marketing and analytics empowering brands and agencies to turn data-driven insights into actionable customer engagement opportunities. Our unified, insights-driven social platform gives marketers the easiest way to Search, Discover, Listen, Publish, Engage and Analyze at scale across earned, owned and paid media. Sysomos serves more than 1,200 customers including 80% of the world's top agencies and global brands. Learn more at Sysomos.com.