Massiv Metro is the brainchild of top-rated DJ, DJ Sbu and Massiv Media, and it streams live in eight Johannesburg taxi ranks and 800 taxis, reaching 672,000 taxi passengers per six-day week, and online at www.massivmetro.com. The radio station prides itself on being relevant to its target market, with top-rated presenters and DJs delivering engaging content that speaks to the township market, from community life to urban city dwelling. The Grand-Pa Kasi Sterring campaign ran on four major African language stations, asking them to vote for their own Kasi Sterring, a local community hero who is personally involved in improving and uplifting his/her community. The prize from Grand-Pa was up to R10,000 worth of ‘relief’, for six winners for Massiv Metro listeners, in the form of assistance towards their project i.e. food supplies, transport, soccer balls, etc.Between the four radio stations, which have a combined listenership of over 19.4 million listeners per week, a total of 727 votes came in – 361, 185, 105, and 76 votes. Massiv Metro set itself the challenge to compete with ‘the big guys’ and exceed the numbers that they had delivered.Faith Mangope, Massiv Metro Station Manager, explains, “As a new radio station competing against the larger, well-established stations, we were not sure what the final outcome would be, but we knew we had a powerful weapon in the Massiv Media integrated media solution, as well as commitment from everyone in the Massiv Metro team – the DJs, creatives, digital, account executives – to exceed the target.”Massiv Metro leveraged parent company, Massiv Media’s integrated media offering, to build a powerful 360 degree solution campaign for the client. This incorporated Massiv Metro Radio that included a mix of pre-recorded generics, live reads, power spots, winner moments, live appearances in the commuter sector, and content creation; 793 transit 4G digital screens in taxis and buses nationally; 16 large format rank digital 4G screens nationally; Wi-Fi in five select ranks – four in Gauteng and one in the Western Cape; and promoters in ranks for Wi-Fi education and campaign awareness; and in-studio content creation to be used across digital and social media platforms.Explains Mangope, “The sweet spot of ‘integration’ for this campaign was the ability of a radio station to give audio a ‘visual’ boost by offering our client the ability to generate in-studio and on the ground video content and feed it into our eco-system. We flighted this across our 4G digital transit and rank TV network, reaching more than 2.9 million commuters per day. After showcasing the first week’s winner we saw a huge increase in engagement and nominations, proving that an integrated solution works. This we believe sets us apart from any other company in terms of this unique offering.”She adds, “We have a deep understanding of our audience, through Massiv Media’s 10 years of experience in reaching this market, as well as consistent engagement by our presenters and DJs through radio and social media.”The results were exceptional. After five weeks, Massiv Metro had received 451 votes - more than the largest of the ALS radio stations - 154 through wi-fi, 286 via WhatsApp, and 11 on Twitter. “It was an innovative campaign that we were excited to be a part of because community is a key focus for us. It was gratifying to see the extent to which our radio audience actively engages and participates on our platform,” says Mangope. “Congratulations to GSK Consumer Healthcare on their Kasi Sterring campaign.”Listeners can tune in to Massiv Metro at www.massivmetro.com or download the app from the Google Play store (Android) and on the App Store (iOS). For more information about Massiv Metro go to massivmetro.com or contact Tony Mallam on tony@massivmetro.combRev('brev-63219090-bf71-4aa3-b4af-0d320b8a33e1', '>a/\<moc.ortemvissam@ynot>"moc.ortemvissam;46#&ynot:otliam"=ferh a<').