The short course has been developed by the Advertising Media Association of South Africa (Amasa), a body focused on attracting and retaining bright young individuals within the media industry. “Amasa has a proud history of partnering with academic, private and industry organisations to ensure we fulfil our mandate of improving media knowledge and skills,” says Wayne Bishop, Chairperson of Amasa. “We decided to partner with Vega to continue growing our reach into the young and aspirational minds of tomorrow’s brand and media specialists, and look forward to a long and prosperous relationship with South Africa’s premier brand, design and business schools.” The Media Management in Brand Building short course offers a deeper understanding of the principles of media strategy, channel and media planning, online and social media in relation to building effective brand strategies. The course consists of 25, three-hour contact sessions along with an assignment, a test and a campaign brief, and content will cover principles of media, definitions, application of media, case studies, research and the various media models. Any individuals interested in the brand, marketing and communications fields, would find the course beneficial.  “This new offering adds further value to the comprehensive range of brand communication, business and design qualifications and short courses available to study at Vega,” says Shevon Lurie, Managing Director at Vega. “The course will be delivered as a face-to-face, part-time programme over 13 weeks at Vega campuses in Johannesburg and Cape Town, and will include guest lectures presented by Amasa members.”  Vega and Amasa have also made provisions for up to 12 bursaries to be awarded each year, so that deserving media practitioners with limited means to further their education can partake in the course. Amasa distributes application forms to its networks of members and advertises the opportunities via Facebook, Media Loop and direct email, after which a shortlist of candidates is compiled, and a panel interviews the candidates to award the bursaries. COURSE DATES: Vega Cape Town: 7 May to 1 Aug 2018  @Vega Brand School Vega Johannesburg: 7 May to 6 Aug 21018 @Vega brand SchoolTo apply visit - https://www.vegaschool.com/slp/media-management-in-brand-building-short-courseAmasa hosts many fundraising initiatives to raise funds for the bursaries, including the Amasa Awards, a Golf Day, the Amasa Course, Textbook sales, the Amasa Party and Amasa Membership. Being an NPO, Amasa reinvests all revenue and profit back into the industry to ensure more people have access to career building opportunities.  For more information on this course visit www.vegaschool.com and www.amasa.org.za.