© Olena Yakobchuk – 123RF.comGrowing need for on-demand skillsThere is an increasing need for flexible staffing on an on-demand basis as firms build projects requiring specific skills. In South Africa in particular, an uncertain economy coupled with stringent labour laws is seeing employees - particularly in the SMME space - turn to independent contractors rather than permanent employees to fill a particular skills gap on-demand. Technological advancements mean that this can be done remotely, even globally, to deliver a particular outcome.  Flexible working as a company benefit2018 is likely to see the rise of flexible working being adopted by companies as a much sought-after company benefit.  A growing number of companies recognise that by offering flexible working as an employment benefit, they can both attract and retain top talent in South Africa. In fact, in recent research conducted by RecruitMyMom amongst over 1,000 South African women, salary and flexible work arrangements both ranked number one when asked about their deciding factors for accepting a job or not. Location, location, locationRecruitMyMom has observed that candidates are increasingly factoring in travel time and personal safety when applying for a job. This has long-term implications for companies deciding on office space, including the accessibility and security of the premises for staff. Good road access and efficient public transport networks will become increasingly important in the months to come and will help companies attract top talent. Technology prowess, please2018 will see a growing need amongst employers for general technology prowess as employees are required to quickly adapt to new technologies and programme platforms as they move from one company to another. Companies are fast becoming paperless and employers are seeking employees who can quickly master new technologies and ways of working. A move to online recruitingThe internet is the new go-to space for recruitment. Large companies in particular, are increasingly using this platform due to its cost-efficiency, allowing them to recruit required talent and skills at far lower fees than traditional recruitment methods. Online agencies can transfer cost efficiencies of being online to employers without compromising on personal service levels and expertise. There is no doubt that 2017 has changed the game for flexible and part-time work in South Africa. While this change can be frustratingly slow at times, we are witnessing the momentum gathering behind a different way of working. This wave will likely push through into 2018 and create even more opportunities for people, and working moms in particular, to stay relevant in the work place while finding a better work-life balance for both themselves and their families.