The PostThe Post is a thrilling drama about the unlikely partnership of Katharine Graham (Meryl Streep), the first female publisher of The Washington Post, and its driven editor Ben Bradlee (Tom Hanks), as they race to catch up with The New York Times to expose a massive cover-up of government secrets that spanned three decades and four US presidents. The script was written by Liz Hannah and Josh Singer.The Post turns Steven Spielberg’s lens on 1970s America for the very first time; the same era in which he first became one of America’s eminent filmmaking voices.The relentlessly brisk narrative is a story of personal connections and courage, but it also brings Spielberg into the world of newspaper reporting at a critical moment for the nation and the world; a realm on the cusp of change with the rising power of women and the coming of corporatisation. Most of all, the story provides a riveting context for a timeless dilemma: when must one speak out to expose a grave national danger even knowing the stakes are unfathomably high?Maze Runner: The Death CureMaze Runner: The Death Cure picks up roughly six months after the Scorch Trials ended.  In the final battle of The Scorch, the survivors of The Flare - a disease that has devastated the world’s population - have defined their purpose; to find a safe haven away from the influence of WCKD. Thomas leads some escaped Gladers on their final and most dangerous mission yet. To save their friends, they must break into the legendary Last City, a WCKD-controlled labyrinth that may turn out to be the deadliest maze of all. Anyone who makes it out alive will get answers to the questions that the Gladers have been asking since they arrived in the maze. This dystopian science-fiction action thriller is directed by Wes Ball, based on The Death Cure, the final book in The Maze Runner trilogy written by James Dashner, with a screenplay by T.S. Nowlin.Monster FamilyThe Wishbones are far from being a happy family. Mum, Emma, owns a bookstore that’s deeply debt-ridden; dad, Frank, is seriously over-worked and suffering under his tyrannical boss; daughter, Fay, is a self-conscious teenager infatuated with her first high school crush, and genius son, Max, is being bullied at school. And it doesn’t end there, at a costume party an evil witch, Baba Yaga, turns them all into monsters! Emma becomes a vampire, Frank turns into Frankenstein’s monster, Fay into a mummy, and Max into a werewolf. Together this monster family must chase the witch halfway around the globe to reverse the curse. During this haphazard adventure, the Wishbones get into trouble with some real-life monsters, not least the irresistibly, charming Count Dracula himself, who professes his undying love for Emma. Well, the road to family happiness is littered with pitfalls and sharp turns, or rather, sharp teeth… Directed by Holger Tappe from a screenplay by David Safier and Catharina Junk, based on the bestseller The Happy Family.Proud MaryTaraji P. Henson is Mary, a hitwoman working for an organised crime family in Boston whose life is completely turned around when she crosses paths with a young boy while doing a job. Babak Najafi directs this action thriller from a screenplay by John Stuart Newman, Christian Swegal, and Steven Antin from a story by Newman and Swegal.“This is a person absolutely numb to life, to love, who is finally awakened,” notes Taraji P. Henson. “We’re so quick as humans to write people off: ‘Oh, that person’s bad,’ after they did one thing - well, with Mary, you can’t say one thing,” she laughs. “But there was this part of life to which she was blind. It’s rough out here and sometimes we don’t make right choices because of our circumstances, the cards we were dealt. Here we have a human just trying to make the best of a bad situation and you’ve got to give her credit for that. You see a killer become a human. Blood starts to pump through her veins - that’s what you see in Mary.”Go behind the scenes of the latest film releases: www.writingstudio.co.za