In today’s fragmented marketplace, it’s never been more important for businesses to create memorable experiences for customers across the touchpoints and moments that really matter. Furthermore, 91% of business leaders believe customer centricity is a top priority and is essential to driving growth1. The partnership aims to close the experience gap for organisations at a time when connectivity is rapidly reshaping the brand and customer experience landscapes. The partnership and global solution will provide clients with holistic customer experience capability, delivered through integrated technology, to identify, optimise and activate customer insights for lasting engagement and maximum return. Additionally, by tapping into the wider Kantar and parent company WPP networks, the partnership will offer unrivalled benefits including access to brand insight, consumer data, market comparisons and industry intelligence. Qualtrics Customer Experience is one of the four pillars of the Qualtrics Experience Management Platform, trusted by over 8,500 brands around the world, and is the most sophisticated CX platform in the industry. It includes flexible role-based dashboards, case management, full CRM integration, and a range of intelligent features built on artificial intelligence, machine learning and advanced analytics. Philips is one of the global organisations to benefit from the alliance having adopted the new solution for their long-term customer experience programme. Robbert Seeger, Head of Global Consumer Care at Philips, shared: “Together with our partner Kantar TNS, we have taken our customer experience programme aimed at fulfilling customer needs across our global service operations to the next level. The implementation of the Qualtrics Experience Management Platform was fast and brings the voice of our customers instantly into our organisation. Our employees are excited about the user-friendly customer insights through analytics and the real-time tooling. In short, this approach helps to improve our services for our valued customers, every single day!” In the Africa & Middle East region, Kantar TNS has a network of over 25 Customer Experience professionals who work closely with Qualtrics to support our clients' business needs around growing relationship strength, managing touchpoint experiences and customer journeys - to ultimately positively impact business performance. Richard Ingleton, CEO at Kantar, said: “We live in an age where experiences are the key point of differentiation. For businesses, success comes from understanding customer expectations, tapping into their emotions and designing products and services which create positive, memorable experiences. Our partnership with Qualtrics will allow our clients to truly embed a customer focus throughout their organisation and create strong customer relationships.” John Torrey, Chief Corporate Development Officer at Qualtrics, added: “We have long believed that experiences are a vital element and a main distinction of every successful business. We are proud to partner with Kantar TNS to offer full-service customer experience solutions combining our unique, advanced Experience Management Platform and Kantar TNS’s world-class consulting, implementation and managed services.” For more information on the partnership, please visit www.tnsglobal.com/what-we-do/customer-experience/qualtrics. Hear more about the partnership at the X4 Summit™, a three-day masterclass in experience management, on 6-9 March 2018, in Salt Lake City, Utah. For more information, go to https://www.qualtrics.com/x4summit/. 1Insights2020, Kantar ConsultingAbout Kantar TNS Kantar TNS is one of the world’s largest research agencies with experts in over 90 countries. With expertise in innovation, brand and communication, shopper activation and customer experience, we help our clients identify, optimise and activate the moments that matter to drive growth for their business. We are part of Kantar, one of the world’s leading data, insight and consultancy companies. Find out more at www.tnsglobal.com. About Qualtrics Qualtrics is a single system of record for all experience data, also called X-data™, allowing organisations to manage the four core experiences of business – customer, product, employee and brand experiences – on one platform. Over 8,500 enterprises worldwide, including more than 75 percent of the Fortune 100 and 99 of the top 100 US business schools, rely on Qualtrics. To learn more, and for a free account, please visit www.qualtrics.com. Press contacts Julia Giona, Qualtrics+1 (415) 828-4775 juliag@qualtrics.combRev('brev-2a5bbb51-81dd-4abb-987f-ce84cafffffa', '>a/\<moc.scirtlauq@gailuj>"moc.scirtlauq;46#&gailuj:otliam"=ferh a<')Aoife McArdle, Kantar TNS+44 (0) 20 7160 5640aoife.mcardle@kantartns.combRev('brev-e22bb6e7-823e-4e2b-afab-a0ece20be499', '>a/\<moc.sntratnak@eldracm.efioa>"moc.sntratnak;46#&eldracm.efioa:otliam"=ferh a<')Ilse Dinner, Kantar +27 (0) 11 202 7000Ilse.dinner@kantar.combRev('brev-680a9290-c58d-4982-ad42-b32cdea1e727', '>a/\<moc.ratnak@rennid.eslI>"moc.ratnak;46#&rennid.eslI:otliam"=ferh a<')