The curated list of trips takes into account that travellers no longer want to simply travel further but seek journeys that are personally fulfilling and return home transformed with a positive perspective and an expanded view of the world.“For our 2018 #TTCTOP10 list, we are showcasing several of our most transformative travel experiences. Our guests are seeking worldwide journeys that are not only experiential but also experiences which cultivate deeper connections with the places they are exploring and meaningful interactions with nature, wildlife, local people and cultures," said Travel Corporation chief executive officer, Brett Tollman. “Our not-for-profit TreadRight Foundation is also celebrating its 10-year anniversary in 2018, and its sustainable tourism principles have guided our amazing brands and socially engaged team members to travel with purpose by giving back to the local communities and places we visit across the globe.”TTC’s 2018 top 10 list of travel experiences:Trafalgar – Best of NorwayA nine-day journey through Norway’s natural splendour and majestic fjords including an exclusive Be My Guest dinner with the Øvre-Eide family at their home that has been a working farm since the Viking Ages. Guests will enjoy authentic accommodations on the shores of the Geiranger Fjord in the fourth generation, family-owned Union Hotel with its spa facilities and vintage car exhibition. Uniworld – India’s Golden Triangle and the Sacred GangesA 13-day luxury river cruise across India’s iconic Golden Triangle and the timeless Ganges for a complete sensory experience including featured excursions to the breath-taking Taj Mahal at sundown, the “Pink City” of Jaipur and a poignant visit to Mother’s Teresa’s Kolkota home.Contiki – London to BerlinThe youth travel brand unveils a new travel style, Independent Insider, designed to give the ultimate freedom and flexibility by letting travellers pick every aspect of their Contiki experience, and this new 13-day trip offers six trip variations with include bike tours of London and Amsterdam. Guests will enjoy authentic food experiences including dining with locals in their homes and unique local experiences including a visit to Montparnasse Tower in Paris.Insight Vacations – European DreamThis 12-day premium escorted journey introduces guests to an Italian chef in Orvieto for a hands-on cooking demonstration where they will learn how to make homemade pasta. Travellers will also join a local expert for an excursion to the Vatican Museums, before they open to the public, and enjoy a private tour of the Bramante staircase for spectacular views over the Vatican gardens. Trafalgar – Tastes and Sounds of the SouthThis 10-day immersive at-leisure guided holiday showcases a vibrant cultural and musical pilgrimage to Nashville, Memphis, Natchez and New Orleans, including visits to the iconic Grand Ole Opry and Graceland. Guests will enjoy an exclusive Be My Guest dinner in the 19th century residence of Esther Carpenter, a former Four Seasons chef once named one of the Top 20 female chefs in America by USA Today, to enjoy a traditional four-course deep south dinner with wine.African Travel – Enchanting East AfricaThis 11-day East African safari roams the game-rich grassy plains of Kenya's Maasai Mara and Tanzania's Serengeti in search of predators and prey. Unique locations and lodging are followed by a blissful seaside stay on the exotic island of Zanzibar.Luxury Gold - British RoyaleThis nine-day luxury escorted journey takes travellers across Britain to enjoy a selection of exclusive VIP experiences, including the Tower of London for a private viewing of the Ceremony of the Keys. As part of the Chairman’s Collection, a specially curated selection of truly exceptional experiences, guests will venture to the majestic Alnwick Castle for an afternoon spent with the elegant Duchess of Northumberland for a private tour of her beautifully restored gardens. Inspiring Journeys – Inspiring AustraliaThis 13-day journey explores the Tropical North, to Central Australia’s spiritual heartland and on to spectacular Sydney. Guests will experience sailing a yacht on Sydney Harbour, toast an Uluru sunset with gourmet canapés and wine and snorkel on the Great Barrier Reef.The Red Carnation Hotel Collection – The English GrillLocated in the Red Carnation’s five-star Rubens at the Palace Hotel, this London restaurant is opulently designed with a rich royal theme of grandeur with polished silver, beautiful chandeliers and tailcoat waiters offering traditional service at its most welcoming. Top quality cuts of meat will be grilled to perfection in the kitchen’s brand new charcoal-fired Josper grill. Using the finest English produce and suppliers that serve the Queen’s kitchen, the dining experience is accompanied by an extensive wine list including a fine selection from Bouchard Finlayson, their sister vineyard in South Africa.U by Uniworld – Rolling on the RhineU is offering a fresh approach to cruising for 21-45 year olds on its new super chic ships. Guests will cruise along the Rhine river on this fun and authentic eight-day journey kick-starting in Amsterdam, along with stops in Haarlem, Cologne, Bonn, Koblenz and Frankfurt. Travellers will dine on local specialties during a U Time Dutch cheese tasting. They will also spend several nights out on the town including Cologne’s Gothic Evening adventure.For more information, go to www.ttc.com/top10.