Saturday, 24 February - Josh Wantie & Gangs of BalletAt 6.15pm on Saturday, 24 February, Josh Wantie will give a free 30-minute performance showcasing his signature blend of indie, electro and synth-rooted melodies. Don’t miss Josh as he effortlessly swaps between guitar and piano while blending in electronic elements and vocal loops. At 7pm, popular alternative rock band Gangs of Ballet will take to the stage for an hour-long performance to show the audience why they are an award-winning band. Saturday, 3 March - Sonik CitizenFans of lyrical soul-rock will not want to miss the musical trio from Sonik Citizen on Saturday, 3 March when they perform a free one hour show from 6pm at the V&A Waterfront Amphitheatre. The band comprises of multi award-winning musician Mark Fransman on lead guitar and vocals, bass guitarist Gino Ackerman and drummer Paul Tizzard. Saturday, 17 March - Danea de BeerSinger-songwriter, Danea de Beer will perform a free hour-long concert at the V&A Waterfront Amphitheatre on Saturday, 17 March from 6pm. Danea, who sums up her music as up-beat, feel-good, modern country will perform her recently released single, 1000 Rivers. Saturday, 25 March - The KiffnessThe Kiffness needs no introduction to electronic music fans. Watch a free one-hour performance from the acclaimed band on Saturday, 25 March at the V&A Waterfront from 6pm. Their jazzy, groovy and uplifting house music has notched up three SAMA nominations for the band and has seen 10 of their singles listed in the top 40 charts. Saturday 31 March - Winston Siljeur Project & Jimmy NevisWrapping up the last of the free Saturday night live summer concerts at the V&A Waterfront Amphitheatre, will be the Winson Siljeur Project. The audience can expect fresh, original jazzy sounds from talented local performers in an hour-long concert starting at 6pm. Bringing the Summer Sessions with Smart to a close is popular alternative pop singer, songwriter and producer, Jimmy Nevis. Nevis will take to the stage on Sunday, 29 April for an hour-long concert starting at 7pm. This talented Capetonian performer has enjoyed commercial success, and won multiple awards including a SAMA. Nevis’ sound is described as “dreamy, tribal and urban” with gospel undertones, quirky lyrics, soulful vocals and catchy melodies. His current track All About It – a collaboration with top local producer Sketchy Bongo – reached the number one slot on the 5FM Pop Charts.