Home is the very place where we laugh, we cry, we grow up and raise our children so it’s no wonder that we all want to tell our stories through our décor and designs, mimicking the past, present and future days between our four walls. The 2018 Johannesburg HOMEMAKERS Expo will take great strides in bringing a thrilling variety of features and exhibitions, sure to tantalise every imaginable taste. Show highlights will include: UJ Design Challenge At this year’s Design Challenge, students from the University of Johannesburg will bring us into the intricate world of clamping tools. With innovation at the forefront, Vermont Sales and the UJ Design School will see to the stellar workings of brilliant young minds, making simple tools work for and appeal to the everyday user. Skybar Our SkyBar speaks to relaxation with a difference. Exhausted after hours of shopping and perusing through our fabulous expo, what better way to unwind than with a cooling cocktail or whisky for a kick! This chic SkyBar facility will overlook the entire show, giving you a bird’s eye view of your next endeavour! Vermont DIY Theatre Intermediate to Ninja! This area is for serial DIYers. Vermont Sales will take visitors through a whirlwind of demonstrations on power tools, inspiring even the most mundane of minds to break down a few walls! Live by Design  Living stylishly, lavishly and resourcefully is Live by Design's premise. Offering up-to-the-minute design trends, a stroll through this area will see visitors leave with purchases and ideas well ahead of the 2018 design game! Live by Design: Pets Our Live by Design: Pets feature will revel in all things fitting to our domesticated friends. Fashionable collars, designer pet beds and beautifully designed bowls will be all the rage at this exclusive crafty corner, where your animal companion can indulge as much as you! Sustainable Living: Going off the Grid Feeling a bit gridlocked? Foo Dog Designs will build a formidable, energy efficient, feature spotlighting Sustainable Living. A holistic overview at how we can take a phased approach to living more responsibly. The feature will give you a step-by-step guide on going green - from changing your light bulbs to going off the grid completely. The Market Families, friends and food-loving fanatics can whet their appetites to their hearts’ content at the HOMEMAKERS Food Market. Delightful delicacies await those with a passion for varying cuisine! Annie Sloan British Annie Sloan Painter in Residence Jonathan Marc Mendes will be demonstrating the many furniture paint finishes one can achieve using Annie Sloan’s world-renowned Chalk Paint™ and techniqueing products. Talented local stockist and specialists will add pizazz to furniture makeovers, looking at ombre, fabric dyeing and fabulous printing. tuis|home Theatre Tuis|home is coming to Johannesburg! Cocktail tastings, food demos, chalk paint demos, coffee tastings... you name it, we’ve got it! For the first time, exclusive to the 2018 HOMEMAKERS Expo, this home theatre will bring a refreshing myriad of entertaining and informative demos in a home theatre space reminiscent of so many visitor homes! General info 22-25 February 2018 | Ticketpro Dome, Northumberland Rd and Olievenhout Ave, North Riding, Johannesburg, 2161 - GPS: 26.0632° S, 27.9433° E.Times: Thursday, 10:00-18:00 | Friday, 10:00 – 18:00 | Saturday, 09:00 – 18:00 | Sunday, 09:00 – 17:00 Entrance: Adults – R100 | Pensioners – R50 | Children under 12 – Free For more information phone 0861 4663 12 or email bomikazi@homemakers-sa.co.zabRev('brev-0e33ca8b-3981-4b46-ac48-a8e898b973b9', '>a/\<az.oc.as-srekamemoh@izakimob>"az.oc.as-srekamemoh;46#&izakimob:otliam"=ferh a<')