Led by an international trainer, and owner of her own successful 30-year business, the training examines empowering techniques for business and personal use, with many concepts based on world-renowned neuro-linguistic programming (NLP) techniques. The second day unpacks marketing secrets, with exercises and checklists. Day 11.	Characteristics of successful entrepreneurs2.	Success begins with you – identify your management style and how to adapt3.	Attitude equals altitude – positive thinking leads to success4.	Set achievable goals – with exercise5.	Time management – stop putting things off6.	Stress management – the good, the bad and the ugly7.	Teamwork & team playing – it’s about the coach!8.	Conflict management & negotiation – win/win strategies9.	Networking for referrals – how to make the most of social occasionsDay 21.	Effective marketing – with checklists2.	Power of words – using NLP techniques to get your audience3.	Write influential press releases – exercise included4.	Advertising –  what to spend, when5.	Social Media vs Traditional Media – what’s working?6.	Communicate without words – body language tips7.	Personal branding – includes calculating your hourly worth8.	Who I am makes a difference – reaffirming importance of feminine qualitiesAbout the trainersGwen Watkins has run various 1-, 2- and 3-day courses in South Africa, Namibia, Botswana and Mauritius, bringing an international perspective to her courses, based on her lecturing and practical business knowledge. As an owner of her own communications & training company, she has been in business since 1988, is the author of three events management textbooks and has contributed to a PR textbook. Margaret Fry, owner of Diamond Coaching and a Comensa registered coach, specialises in coaching small businesses to profitability. She has a BA in Psychology and Economics (Unisa) and a MBA (Wits Business School). Margaret is also an independent non-executive director of the Cape Wine Academy, involved in wine education and training for the tourism and hospitality industries.Lee Roelofse, owner of MediaPro, has 25 years’ experience as a media professional and manager across major media organisations, launching top products such as Business Report and Workplace, and visiting UK media organisations. She has a professional diploma in digital marketing (Digital Marketing Institute). Lee brings this expertise together to create winning advertising projects for public and private corporations and offers great insights on websites, social media and marketing vs traditional media to create successful campaigns. The course will be held at the Infinity Academy in Benoni on 22-23 August 2018, at a cost of R3,500 per person. Costs include lunch and refreshments on both days and a USB flash drive with extensive notes and checklists. As the course requires group collaboration and personal input, numbers are limited to 16 delegates. For more information, contact Lee Roelofse +27 (11) 973-2478 or email lee@infinityacademy.co.zabRev('brev-db599e5b-7665-4aae-a9e7-e720065d082a', '>a/\<az.oc.ymedacaytinifni@eel>"az.oc.ymedacaytinifni;46#&eel:otliam"=ferh "knalb_"=tegrat a<'). Infinity Academy 30 4th Avenue Benoni www.infinityacademy.co.za