The aim of the in-agency activations is to showcase the potential and reach of Ads24’spopular mass market titles: Daily Sun, Die Son, Soccer Laduma and Kick Off. These titles cater for 64% of South Africa’s population and reach one in two South Africans every month. The popular titles are serious drivers of local economy and culture, with 35% of readers in full time employment and 2.7 million (46%) of readers claiming that they use advertising inserts to plan their shopping, while 1.8 million (30%) of our readers buy products as a result of seeing them on advertising inserts. Team players were presented with a finger football desk drops to hone their skills but the ultimate challenge lies in Ads24’s new and improved online diski game. Agencies and clients working with Ads24 are invited to play to up their chances of winning by visiting ads24diski.co.za. Simply register, pick a team, build a player and take a shot at the goal to stand a chance of winning one of six Sony PlayStation 4 consoles and a FIFA 18 game. Contenders are encouraged to share their score on social media and tag @Ads24 and use the #Ads24Diski18 hashtag. #Ads24Disk18!i is part of the drive to educate media buyers about the mass market by engaging in the competition and surrounding content in a way that the mass market enjoys. In addition, Ads24 is offering promotional packages for a limited time only:First Division: From R145k, which includes 3x print ads as well as desktop and mobile banners.Championship League: From R425k, which includes 9x print ads, desktop and mobile banners as well as desktop and mobile section sponsorships. The Premier League: From R860k, which includes 15 x print ads, print and digital content as well as desktop and mobile banners.  Activations will roll out in Johannesburg, Cape Town and Durban over the rest of July. For more information on how you can tailor the Starter Pack, Booster or Premium deals to suit your campaign and budget contact your local Ads24 consultant.Please note that only agencies and clients working with Ads24 will qualify for an opportunity to win prizes. The competition is not open to the general public.