When we started Columinate, it was with the idea that there ought to be a more effective and efficient way to conduct research, and so we pioneered the use of MROCs (or Market Research Online Communities) locally – a modern way of doing qualitative research. An MROC builds on the fundamentals of a focus group, which means you can have a real-time conversation with your target audience. However, unlike a focus group, you can engage with hundreds, even thousands of research participants simultaneously. But it’s much, much more than that. During my time moderating focus groups, I realised this traditional methodology had several shortcomings. While these are just my personal gripes, I’m sure many researchers would share my sentiments: TravelingHave a personal life? Well, if you’re a moderator for your client’s next battery of focus groups, you don’t. Focus groups always require traveling, and often at inconvenient times, whether at night, at the weekend, or a different city all together. And with all that travel, you’re bound to lose a bag or two – a great way to kickstart your qualitative project.There’s no travel required with an MROC, either for you, your client, or the research participants. You deploy your community digitally and manage it from your home or office. Your community members can participate from wherever they are, using the device of their choice – whether it’s their desktop from home, their laptop from the office, or their mobile phone or tablet while waiting in line at the doctor’s office.  Time and durationBesides being scheduled at awkward times, focus groups take a lot of time to prep, set up, decode, analyse, and report on. (Remember, you’re not just doing one – you’re doing several across the country!) It can take its toll on the researcher. MROCs are much (MUCH!) quicker to set up, and much quicker to get going. The thing that takes the most time on an MROC is client’s feedback on the discussion guide. And because you’ve got at least a hundred people captivated over the course of a few days (much longer than your standard two hours), you can explore your topic in depth and breadth. It’s a group – a face-to-face groupWe’ve seen little (if any) methodological innovation from how focus groups are administered in the last 70 years – people still believe that group dynamics will lead to better insights – despite there invariably being at least one dominant spokesperson in each group, steering the conversation, and one wallflower that contributes nothing (aside from eating the muffins and claiming their incentive).An MROC is still a group, just a digital group, so if you want collaboration or group think, you got it! But now you reduce the chances of the bombastic respondent taking over the conversation because everyone has equal airtime on the digital platform. Responses are far more considered and thorough. Should you want one-on-one feedback, it’s easy to just engage specific people directly, something that can’t easily be done in the focus group environment. Thanks to the anonymity and asynchronous nature of MROCs, people give much more considered, truthful, rich, in-depth feedback – there’s no one they need to impress, no reason to lie – they can express themselves frankly (using words, picture, video, anything really), without feeling judged.  The quality of recruitmentRecruiters are incentivised to get people around the table – they are not incentivised by the quality of these respondents’ responses. Also, recruiters sometimes face unnecessary restrictions – they get a very specific sample they have to recruit for but are not allowed to use a database or panel – they’re expected to magically discover these people on the street?! We recruit our MROC participants from our panel, where we’ve already pre-profiled tens of thousands of South Africans, eager to answer your questions. With an MROC, we get the right people, and we get them quickly.  Unnecessary expensesThere are so many non-research costs in running a full-scale focus group: venue hire, catering, transport, recruiter fees, incentives, incentive handling fee, markers, pens, parking, the list goes on... Imagine if every cent went to a research activity or an insights-generating activity instead.With an MROC, 99% of costs go directly into generating insights...These are just some of the reasons why I loathed doing focus groups. The sheer ease of use and intuitive nature of MROCs has all but revolutionised the approach to qualitative research – and I don’t believe it because I’m selling it, I’m selling it because I believe it!Read more about our approach to modern qualitative research, especially the role of MROCs, in our latest eBook – download your free copy here.