This is exactly what South Africans can expect to experience after award-winning agency, DNA Brand Architects, added luxury vehicle brand, Volvo Cars South Africa to their list of impressive clients.DNA Brand Architects won the Volvo Cars South Africa account after standing out in a multi-agency pitch where many of South Africa’s cream of the crop in the advertising industry were competing to secure the business. Volvo Cars South Africa says choosing to work with DNA Brand Architects was a clear-cut decision and are proud to welcome the team on board. “The process towards awarding this business was very thorough and meticulous. But what we were looking for was a creative agency that would be able to do things differently and take our brand to the next level,” says Head of Marketing and Communications, Charmagne Mavudzi at Volvo Cars South Africa. “DNA Brand Architects stood out for us during the process and it is with pleasure for us to be awarding our account to fellow creators and innovators in the space.” Asked to comment on their big win, DNA Brand Architects says it was through their innovative approach and track record that they managed to convert the team at Volvo Cars South Africa to cement the relationship with the agency. “For us it is always about creating amazing work for our clients and making wow stuff happen for brands. This is exactly what we intend to do together with the team at Volvo Cars South Africa,” says Sylvester Chauke, Chief Architect at DNA Brand Architects. “Volvo is an amazing brand. We cannot wait to cocurate work that will put the brand on the map right where it belongs.” DNA Brand Architects’ scope of work will include public relations and reputation management across the entire portfolio. “We very excited to be introducing Volvo’s top notch vehicle models to the South African market and letting the public know about the innovation behind the brand. Not only are we thrilled but we are ready for this new journey ahead,” concludes Chauke. For more information, visit www.dnabrand.co.za. You can also follow DNA Brand Architects on Facebook, Twitter or on Instagram.