Starting mid-October, eNCA will carry Bloomberg news segments from New York and other global market hubs to take the pulse of world economies and their impact on South Africa. The Bloomberg news segments will be a part of “News Hour” on weeknights, which airs from 10-11pm. In a few short weeks, News Hour has entrenched itself as must-see viewing not only for the local business community ending its day and preparing for tomorrow but general news viewers who are looking for sharp economic context to the daily news flow.Bloomberg Media will also provide fresh insight into global market trends and business analysis through a series of special feature segments and personality profiles available on eNCA and eNCA.com.With 2,700 journalists and analysts in 120 countries, Bloomberg is the leading provider of global business news reaching a premium audience of more than 80 million influential decision makers across five platforms: digital, television, radio, print and live events. Mapi Mhlangu eNCA’s Editor-in-Chief says: “The channel is delighted with this new partnership as it gives more heft to our business and markets coverage at a time when the economy is top of mind for all South Africans. As the recession starts to bite we simply cannot ignore the fact that our economy is intricately tied to the rest of world. Whether it’s the strength or weakness of our rand against the dollar which impacts on the fuel and the cost of imports, or perceptions about our emerging market status, we must be in the know to stay ahead of the money game.”“As the leading global business and finance media company, we are excited to partner with eNCA to bring our premium journalism and relevant content to business leaders and decision makers in the region,” said Josh Bassett, Director of EMEA Distribution and Partnerships at Bloomberg Media Distribution. “Our partnership with eNCA is an important part of our strategy to extend Bloomberg’s reach in the Africa business community.”About Bloomberg Media DistributionBloomberg Media Distribution provides the Bloomberg Terminal, as well as video, text news, photos and data, to publishers, broadcasters and other media companies in more than 130 countries. Providing clients with a single destination for Bloomberg and partner content, Bloomberg Media Distribution’s content offerings span business and finance, politics, technology, entertainment, music, sports and health and science discoveries. The group is also responsible for linear video distribution and branded partnerships around the globe. For more information about how to license content, please contact us.About eNCACelebrating its tenth year in 2018, eNCA is South Africa’s most-watched 24-hour television news channel and the country’s premier independent supplier of television news. eNCA regularly commands a share of over 50% of the country’s pay-TV news market. eNCA’s live reports, breaking news, sport, weather, entertainment and business updates have become an indispensable source of local and international news for millions of South Africans. The television channel is complemented by a dynamic online offering that includes a multimedia news website and mobile app.