"The Roger Garlick Award is the pinnacle of our accolades and is awarded annually to the overall Campaign of the Year," says Wayne Bishop, Chairperson of Amasa. "We’re thrilled that Kaya FM has come on-board to sponsor this award that showcases the best in media creativity, innovation and execution."The Amasa Awards recognise and celebrate media planning, innovation and creative media excellence from agencies around South Africa. Judges look for entries which are based on sound insights, underpinned by great ideas and followed through with perfectly executed strategy all the while showing outstanding and measurable results. Last year, Halo won the Garlick Grand Prix Award for their outstanding work on the Jacaranda FM, #MoreMusicYouLove campaign.Brenda Modibane, Marketing and Business Development Manager at Kaya FM adds: “As a brand, Kaya FM is constantly looking to innovate within the business for our audiences and clients across our platforms. Our sponsorship of the Roger Garlick Grand Prix award allows us to celebrate like-minded individuals and teams that push boundaries. We’re proud to continue this partnership for a third year.”This year, the Amasa Awards has added Agency of the Year to the list of categories. The winning agency will be determined through a combination of points for shortlists, highly commended and gold awards as well as a senior panel of experts to evaluate the top scoring agencies.Now in its fifth year, the Amasa Awards has grown from a single award shared within the framework of other great industry award ceremonies, into its own credible, memorable and valuable award ceremony. “We would like to thank all of our sponsors and especially the media agencies that have taken the time to enter. From initial scanning of the entries, marketers are in superb hands,” concludes Bishop. “We look forward to seeing all of our media industry colleagues at the awards on 10 October 2018.”For tickets or for more information email amasa.awards2018@gmail.combRev('brev-f655fa6f-1a52-4e6b-b265-48dee4024b93', '>a/\<moc.liamg@8102sdrawa.asama>"moc.liamg;46#&8102sdrawa.asama:otliam"=ferh "knalb_"=tegrat a<').