South Africa’s Mobile Marketing Association (MMA SA) has announced its heavyweight line-up of speakers for its upcoming Accelerate conference. Hosted on 1 November at the Maslow Hotel in Johannesburg, guests will gain access to experts in the marketing field who discuss how to respond to accelerated change in how we live, work and play. Two international speakers headline the event. They are Adam Pattison, Vice President for BBM Messenger across Europe, Middle East, Africa and the Americas and Paul Wright MD of UK, France and EMEA from Apps Flyer. Local speakers include guest speaker Julia Ahlfeldt, a Customer Experience Professional (CCXP), Uber’s Head of Marketing Sub Saharan Africa, Lindsey Elkin, Ogilvy’s Chief Creative Officer Pete Case and Standard Bank’s Executive Head for Interactive, Bellinda Carreira. Zia Namooya and Daryl van Arkel, CEO of Mindshare SA and CEO of Vicinity Media host a CEO Session to debate key concerns and opportunities within ABV: ad fraud, brand safety and viewability while three Smarties judges present their how-to guide on how to win an award. An in-depth ABV Report and insightful Smarties guide will be made available for all guests at no cost. “Our customers and their data are in the driver’s seat and we’re catching a ride. How do we use this new normal to our benefit? This is what we discuss in detail at the MMA SA’s Accelerate Forum. During the day our expert speakers take a good look at projections for the mobile marketing industry in 2019 as well as reflections on 2018’s key learnings and best practices,” comments MMA SA’s Country Director, Sarah Utermark. Among speaker topics, guests will listen to:  BBM’s Adam Pattison who talks about the digital paradox and what brands and content providers can do to take advantage of an increasingly "post-digital" world. From his position as a global app developer in the chat and content verticals, Adam explores what comes next for a digital economy that combines the need for huge scale but with an increasingly intimate and nuanced execution, and how this could affect South Africa and other emerging markets as the developed economies move toward an increasingly "post-digital" age.  Standard Bank’s Bellinda Carreira shares her vision of what lies ahead for marketers. Driven by the emergence of new technologies, and the widespread adoption of data driven marketing solutions, the way brands operate digitally is changing faster and more significantly than ever before. Navigating these seismic shifts requires companies and their marketing leaders to demonstrate the ability and willingness to throw out the old playbook in response to the opportunities and challenges that lie ahead. Bellinda also reflects on the ongoing transformation of Standard Bank’s marketing business, and outlines her vision for the company’s and the industry’s next chapter.  Julia Ahlfeldt CCXP: As AI takes centre stage, the real secret to winning over Gen Z is customer experience. Since 89% of businesses are soon expected to compete mainly on customer experience, organizations that take customer experience seriously will reap the rewards on achieving a robust customer loyalty base, higher retention and increased revenues. What role does mobile play in achieving this? “Marketing is being significantly affected by the need for brands to be customer-centric, a deluge of data, ad fraud, and automated technologies. Mobile is at the heart of these changes. The Accelerate Forum zones in on these key issues to arm guests with information and intelligence that they can take back and use in their respective roles,” says Utermark. The ABV Report and ‘How to win a Smarties award’ guide further provide guests with insight curated from the best minds in the branding and mobile world. Both reports will be made available at no cost to attendees. To book a seat at the MMA SA’s Accelerate Forum visit http://qkt.io/FC9PsI. Tickets cost R750 p.p. for members and R950 for non-members. Accelerate is proudly brought to you by Apps Flyer, BBM and Vicinity Media. With thanks to our Strategic Partners MTN and Standard Bank.